README.md, before:

# Bank Tech Test

Makers Week 10 Individual Challenges

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Kittaru87/bank-tech-test.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Kittaru87/bank-tech-test)

**Tech used**

Language: ruby

Testing: rspec, travis

Linting: rubocop, simplecov (100% coverage)

## Specification
Write a program that can be used by irb to simulate a user's interaction with their bank account.

### Requirements

* You should be able to interact with your code via a REPL like IRB or the JavaScript console. (You don't need to implement a command line interface that takes input from STDIN.)
* Deposits, withdrawal.
* Account statement (date, amount, balance) printing.
* Data can be kept in memory (it doesn't need to be stored to a database or anything).

### Acceptance criteria

* Given a client makes a deposit of 1000 on 10-01-2012
* And a deposit of 2000 on 13-01-2012
* And a withdrawal of 500 on 14-01-2012
* When she prints her bank statement she would see:

date || credit || debit || balance

14/01/2012 || || 500.00 || 2500.00

13/01/2012 || 2000.00 || || 3000.00

10/01/2012 || 1000.00 || || 1000.00

### user stories
```
As a customer
So that I can save money
I want to be able to deposit money into my account

As a customer
So that I can spend my money
I want to be able to withdraw money from my account

As a customer
So I may have a better understanding of my financial outgoings
I want to be able to see a printed statement of my withdrawals and deposits (newest first)
```
### Model

![Bank Tech Test Model](./public/bank-tt-model.jpg)

## Installation instructions

* git clone https://github.com/Kittaru87/bank-tech-test.git
* cd bank-tech-test
* `bundle install` - install gem file
* `rspec --init` - initialize rspec
* `rspec` to run test suite
* This software runs in irb (or Ruby REPL of choice run through the terminal)

### irb test
```
$ require './account.rb'
=> true 

$ require './statement.rb'
=> true 

$ account = Account.new
=> #<Account:0x00007fdc021ecf90 @balance=0, @history=[], @transaction=Transaction> 

$ account.deposit(100.00)
=> [#<Transaction:0x00007fdc021fcdf0 @date="20/04/20", @credit="100.00", @debit=0, @balance="100.00">] 

$ account.withdraw(50.00)
=> [#<Transaction:0x00007fa460949588 @date="20/04/20", @credit="100.00", @debit=0, @balance="100.00">, #<Transaction:0x00007fa460959000 @date="20/04/20", @credit=0, @debit="50.00", @balance="50.00">] 

$ statement = Statement.new(account.history)
 => #<Statement:0x00007fbe3fa524e0 @history=[#<Transaction:0x00007fbe400b6570 @date="21/04/20", @credit="100.00", @debit=0, @balance="100.00">, #<Transaction:0x00007fbe3fa5b130 @date="21/04/20", @credit=0, @debit="50.00", @balance="50.00">]> 

$ statement.print
date || credit || debit || balance
21/04/20 ||  || 50.00 || 50.00
21/04/20 || 100.00 ||  || 100.00
```

### edge cases
* Should the user be able to withdraw money when they have 0 balance?

Commit message:

removing balance from account history, to be calculated in statement

README.md, after:

# Bank Tech Test

Makers Week 10 Individual Challenges

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/Kittaru87/bank-tech-test.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/Kittaru87/bank-tech-test)

**Tech used**

Language: ruby

Testing: rspec, travis

Linting: rubocop, simplecov (100% coverage)

## Specification
Write a program that can be used by irb to simulate a user's interaction with their bank account.

### Requirements

* You should be able to interact with your code via a REPL like IRB or the JavaScript console. (You don't need to implement a command line interface that takes input from STDIN.)
* Deposits, withdrawal.
* Account statement (date, amount, balance) printing.
* Data can be kept in memory (it doesn't need to be stored to a database or anything).

### Acceptance criteria

* Given a client makes a deposit of 1000 on 10-01-2012
* And a deposit of 2000 on 13-01-2012
* And a withdrawal of 500 on 14-01-2012
* When she prints her bank statement she would see:

date || credit || debit || balance

14/01/2012 || || 500.00 || 2500.00

13/01/2012 || 2000.00 || || 3000.00

10/01/2012 || 1000.00 || || 1000.00

### user stories
```
As a customer
So that I can save money
I want to be able to deposit money into my account

As a customer
So that I can spend my money
I want to be able to withdraw money from my account

As a customer
So I may have a better understanding of my financial outgoings
I want to be able to see a printed statement of my withdrawals and deposits (newest first)
```
### Model

![Bank Tech Test Model](./public/bank-tt-model.jpg)

## Installation instructions

* git clone https://github.com/Kittaru87/bank-tech-test.git
* cd bank-tech-test
* `bundle install` - install gem file
* `rspec --init` - initialize rspec
* `rspec` to run test suite
* This software runs in irb (or Ruby REPL of choice run through the terminal)

### irb test
```
$ require './account.rb'
=> true 

$ require './statement.rb'
=> true 

$ account = Account.new
=> #<Account:0x00007fdc021ecf90 @balance=0, @history=[], @transaction=Transaction> 

$ account.deposit(100.00)
=> [#<Transaction:0x00007fdc021fcdf0 @date="20/04/20", @credit="100.00", @debit=0, @balance="100.00">] 

$ account.withdraw(50.00)
=> [#<Transaction:0x00007fa460949588 @date="20/04/20", @credit="100.00", @debit=0, @balance="100.00">, #<Transaction:0x00007fa460959000 @date="20/04/20", @credit=0, @debit="50.00", @balance="50.00">] 

$ statement = Statement.new(account.history)
 => #<Statement:0x00007fbe3fa524e0 @history=[#<Transaction:0x00007fbe400b6570 @date="21/04/20", @credit="100.00", @debit=0, @balance="100.00">, #<Transaction:0x00007fbe3fa5b130 @date="21/04/20", @credit=0, @debit="50.00", @balance="50.00">]> 

$ statement.print
date || credit || debit || balance
21/04/20 ||  || 50.00 || 50.00
21/04/20 || 100.00 ||  || 100.00
```

### edge cases and further development
* Should the user be able to withdraw money when they have 0 balance?
* Following a review it was suggested that I move the balance calculation to the statement class as most banking apps do not store any current balance but rather calculate balance on the fly whenever it is requested. I've started to do this in a branch called 'handling-balance' - it currently works but the issue is not allowing the balance to dip below 0 if the balance is being calculated from scratch each time in the statement.



require './account.rb'
require './statement.rb'
account = Account.new
account.deposit(50.00)
account.withdraw(30.00)
statement = Statement.new(account.history)
statement.print_statement

account.deposit(50.00)
statement.print_statement
